Every Minute Counts: meeting your financial needs faster
WHEREAMI: 
Tuesday: open up each section and pad out the paragraphs; organise for speech
Wednesday: prepare and print notes; rehearse AM and PM (twice)
Thursday: proof read for blogging
Friday: continue

# Intro
I'm Jack Kinsella. I'm going to tell you a little about my situation so
you can place my later points into context. For the last four years I
have run a website where students upload notes they created during their
university studies to help them ace exams, sell them through my platform
to other students . I take a 50% cut.  The entire sales process is
automatic and I can forget about the website for month's on end and still
exceed my financial needs.

# The Great Freedoms
Let's examine the main reasons why you might want a passive income
stream. To my mind, it's all about freedoms: location, free time in that
you have a low number of hours required to work, freedom of scheduling,
in that you have flexibility of when those hours are, and freedom of
boss.

Achieving all four of these freedoms is more difficult than achieving
only one or two of them, and I invite you to think about which of the
freedoms are the highest priority to you in designing your passive
income stream. You might be able to achieve one or more of these
freedoms within the next week by tweaking some part of your current
working arrangement.

## 1 Freedom of location (working from anywhere in the world) Great
Great because you can earn while travelling or take your job with you
when you relocate to a new city.

For you to be location free doesn't necessarily mean massive changes to
your working arrangement. You could ask your current boss if they are
willing to try out that remote working, or find another company willing
to do it.  My assistants, at Oxbridge Notes, are location free, which is
necessary, since if I'm location free the last thing I want is my
assistants following me around the globe and coming knocking on my hotel
room room at 9 o' clock in the morning.

## 2 Freedom of time (low number of hours)
Less time doing unpleasant tasks to meet your financial needs means more
time on your hobbies, your creative projects and your pleasures. Working
a full-time paying job that requires only a fraction of the normal time
is a radical improvement in quality of life, and for me, the freedom I
most value.

Again freedom of time can be readily achieved with tweaks in your
current setup.  For example if you earn a high hourly rate freelancing
(say $150/hour as iPhone developers with US clients pull in), and your
financial needs are modest, then you could, as I know people in Berlin
actually do, work solidly for two months per year then take the next ten
off. The guy I have in mind likes his booze so he runs a hobby bar that
only breaks even during the other ten months of the year. A damn nice
arrangement, and one that's quite achievable to those with skills and a
network.

## 3 Freedom of scheduling (flexibility of when those hours are)
Not quite the same thing as freedom of time.  If you work only one hour
a week, but are required, without fail, to be a computer for one minute
every four hours, forgoing sleep, romantic partners, parties or travel
arrangements, then you have dreadful working conditions. I don't see
this point highlighting enough in the 4HWW community, but you ought to
consider how frequently, at what times, and with what regularity your
passive income stream requires you to present to work on. For example,
before I outsourced customer service, I need to check my emails at least
once a day, which, limited certain types of travel away where I was away
from a WIFI connection.

## 4 Freedom of boss
Having a superior isn't as fun as being your own boss. You have to adapt
to your boss's way of doing things and to be on polite people-pleasing
behaviour mode when sometimes you just want to scream at them for being
unreasonable. You don't *feel* independent when someone is telling you
what to do and how to do it.

Of course without a superior it means that you must take on ultimate
responsibility for ensuring everything goes smoothly and you have no
mentor to learn from or ask questions from, so you buy this freedom at a
cost to your stress levels.

I mention this as a freedom because I can perceive of situations where
you might get the other freedoms but need to suffer under a superior you
do not like. But that might be an acceptable compromise—or not—depending
on personality type.  Perhaps you'd prefer to work 10 instead of 5 hours
for the benefit of no boss.

## Wrapping up freedoms
Rank each of these and figure out what's most important for you, and
where you are willing to compromise. Also, if you discover that a
passive income stream will mean you have to live on less money than
otherwise, it's healthy to remind yourself of the benefits you are
buying for the decreased paycheck so you don't get your ego bruised when
some 60HWer brags that they earn three times what you do.

# Designing Your Value

Profitable business, as I see it, is producing something that other
people want so badly that they'll part with their hard-earned cash for
it, when you have create this product and found the people that want to
buy it at a low cost in time/effort/resources on your behalf.

That leads to the two most basic questions you should ask yourself when
creating a passive income stream.
1. What do your current talents and skills enable you to produce,
   cheaply, that other people will pay for? If you've got no skills,
   then you'll need to develop some before you have a remote chance of a passive
   income. Baring inheritance, you don't get something for nothing.
2. How do you propose to locate, convince and deliver these products to
   the paying customers? In short I'll call this your "reaching". Others
   call it marketing, but I find this term more helpful in imagining the
  actual actions you will be required to take in order to make sales.

To put this into perspective I'll share more of my story.

I graduated college with a law degree; went to work in a London law firm
as an intern, and during my time there, I shrunk at the thought of how
repetitious and boring it would be to sit in the same office for 35
years. No salary, no matter how handsome, could convince me to sacrifice
my youthful lust for adventure, and I realised that, despite the effort
I had put into my legal education, I did not want to be a corporate
lawyer.

Around this time I saw 4HWW in a bookshop, flipped through it, and fell
in love with the idea. I never bought or read the book: all I needed was
to know that it was possible to earn money in a location-free,
low-time-commitment manner. Just *knowing* that something can be done
empowers a person to achieve what they previously though impossible. I
believe it's for this reason that as soon as an athletic world record is
broken, such as the 4 minute mils, many others soon reach that
benchmark.

I brainstormed on what value I could provide. What were my
skills(reasonable writer, HTML/CSS, undergraduate legal education), my
interests, my assets (e.g. the thousands of pages of notes I had
accumulated in college), the prospective partnerships within my social
network (e.g. I had a friend in Bolivia that wanted to import wood into
Europe and needed a contact).

I examined each of the values I could provide and asked myself how I
could deliver value to customers in a manner that allowed me to be
location free and time free. (At this time I didn't think about the
freedoms with as much granularity as I do today).

One of the ideas on my list that didn't make the cut was "College
Admissions Tutor". I believed that local parents would pay top euro for
assistance in getting their child into a prestigious university. I
suspected I could reach the customers through advertising at secondary
schools for rich kids and through advertising in local newspapers, so I
thought myself to have reachability covered. I would not, however, be
location free because I'd need to be in a room somewhere with these kids
(let's be realistic VOIP services like Skype are even to this day too
unreliable.)

One of the most powerful slogans I developed for scoring my options was
that the ideal income stream would be one where I produce something once
then sell many times. Professional writers, like Adam Fletcher speaking
before me, embody this income source. Selling information or monetizing
a website also fit this bill. Since I had about 200 hours experience
fooling around with programming in my spare time, mostly pranking
people, I felt I knew enough to build a website, do I decided to limit
my search to website ideas.

I started by building the crappiest of all websites: directories. The
beauty of a directory is that it's simple enough for an extremely newbie
programmer, and the business model is every bit as suited to an newbie
businessman.  My pitch went like this: You're a lawyer in Ireland, you
have no website, you pay 100 euros a year for your place on
"findsolicitors.ie". The telephone directory had a list of every lawyer
in the country's contact details, and there were magazines circulated to the
Irish legal community, meaning that in combination I could imagine
getting enough of the attention of my customers to have a chance to sell
my product.. I built this website over a few weeks and once it was done,
and I'm ashamed to admit this, I didn't have the courage to release it
and market it. I felt intimated by the legal community and socially
anxious about putting myself out there and risking failure. Ridiculous,
in retrospect, but I mention it because your self-confidence, or rather
lack of, will crush any chances you have of 4HWW.

I set my sights lower than marketing to the legal community, and
modified the original directory website to showcase private secondary
school tutors instead of lawyers. Johnny is bad at Math - use this
website's search function to find a teacher in your town to teach him
after Johnny comes home from school. 40 euro/year. I read up on SEO and
optimised the website for Google with a few tricks before launching. A
few weeks later I got my first sale, and oh boy did that feel good. For
the first time in my life I had earned money directly from the market,
without a middleman, and all of my own design and doing. I felt such
pleasure at the achievement, and one that I still feel every time I
get a sale on my current business.

I had a few more sales from the private tutors website, but it only ever
made a couple of hundred euros. Seeing that it didn't work, I returned
to the drawing board, and decided to try something else. In college
everyone in my year said I made excellent notes, so I decided to sell my
old university law notes on a website. I edited the documents to remove
any copyright infringing parts, and asked a few friends to let me use
the areas they covered but I missed out, then made a basic HTML website
with a simple CSS template. It took me nine days to design the website,
write the copy, get a shopping cart plugin working, create free samples
and eventually launch. I sat back and waited but, unlike with my tutors
website no sales happened.

At the time I was watching the TV show "The Wire" and one of the
characters, Proposition Joe, said something that really resonated with
me "Buy for a dollar, sell for two". Although I took the meaning a
little out of context, the message for me was that you need to spend
some money to make money. So, with great reluctance, I decided to pay
for online advertising via Google Adwords.

And when I did it was magic; I had switched on a water-hose of sales.
It being a new product that no-one yet owned, I sold a couple of
thousand euros worth of the notes the first month, so much that I flew
to Japan and operated the website while on the go, then spent three
months in Bolivia, having a blast, doing the same. Sure, I paid Google a
chunky proportion of my money, but I wouldn't have gotten anything
without advertising, so I was delighted with the partnership.

Ever since I've lived on Oxbridge Notes— I knew that my notes would
quickly go out of date so I turned the website into a platform where
other students would provide the content and I share the profits. I had
to learn a great deal about programming, an investment I'm happy of
having made, and in exchange for my risktaking and thought, I've been
rewarded a dream 20s, one in which I've indulged my interests, travelled
extensively, and had no boss other than my customers.

That's the big picture. Let me now move onto some details that I wish I
knew when I starting off.

# Pointers

## Build Your Income Stream From the Ground Up Using Fresh Web Accounts
When I started Oxbridge Notes I used my personal email address for the
web services I relied upon, such as my web server hardware, my Paypal
account, my Google Docs, whatever. Then, once I hired virtual
assistants, I had to switch my accounts, sometimes with great annoyance,
to a new info@oxbridgenotes account. I advise you all to begin your
passive income journey by creating online accounts, and, after you've
got a little momentum, a separate physical bank account and credit card,
for your business.

## Be Productivity Obsessed 
Revisiting our earlier definition of business, someone working a 4HWW is
someone who can deliver equivalent value in four hours of work, as
another person can in forty hours. Think about your working day: how
much is spent browsing Facebook? Doing "facetime"? In unproductive
meetings? Fine-tuning something that doesn't impact product quality or
sales significantly? I would guess that the average worker could do as
good as a job in half the time with discipline.

Productivity has the stereotypical image of a hyper-caffeinated geek
with 12 tabs open in their web-browser working while jogging on a
threadmill and flossing at the same time The kind of productivity you
should be concerned with isn't that: it's no more and no less than
finishing and shipping a finished product in as little time as possible.
This kind of productivity means you are only as productive as the
weakest link in the chain between idea and finished product in
customer's hands, so you'll need to focus on improving your speed in all
of the skills along that trail, and to also cultivate the ability to
make and stomach difficult decisions, have the emotional strength to
release something into the public eye, and develop your own good
judgement to prioritise your own time so as to do only the necessary
tasks. 

Some perils or particular danger to the new passive incomer are going to
"business coffees" with likeminded people, saying "yes"  to oddball
customer requests (i.e. providing a service you don't normally do, when
it's inefficient for you to do so, instead of telling the customer
"sorry we don't do that")

## Systematise everything

Your passive income stream will, without doubt, have repeating tasks
that you'll need to complete. In my business, I require systems for
evaluating whether new notes are any good, for placing them online in a
manner that's good for SEO, for running online advertising to recruit
new authors every summer, for dealing with various customer requests,
and for providing accounts in a timely manner to the government.

Much of your time-saving will come from streamlining these tasks so that
they are easy for you to fulfil, or better yet, figuring out how to
outsource them to others in a way that maintains reasonable standards of
quality. The holy grail, of course, is automating these tasks out of
existence, likely through code.

The process of systematisation begins with you identifying all your
repeating tasks and jotting them down in a bullet-point list. Now create
a document for each of these tasks and write out roughly how you do
currently do them. To my surprise, I've learned that this act of writing
out a business process is the most important part of systematising, for
when you are forced to crystalise the process in words, you quickly see
the waste and disorganisation in your current mode of operation, and the
ample opportunities of improvement. 

Once you have documented process not only will you have begun optimising
that process, but you will also have created training materials to hand
to outsourced assistants, or for future you when you forget how to do
something after three months trekking in Canada on you passive income.
Last, but not least, these documents are required should you hope to
ever sell your business.


## Religious keeping of receipts and business expenses
A disciplined approach to expensing equipment (monitors, laptops),
web-services, home-office expenses and business-related travel (be that
within Berlin or abroad), can dramatically cut down your tax bills,
leaving you to enjoy a higher percentage of take home pay on a smaller
income. As soon as you start making money consult an accountant or an
experienced businessman to learn how to keep and file receipts.


## Every customer service question means that there's a problem with your website
Initially, with Oxbridge Notes, I received a great many customer service
emails regarding payment process information, help on how to open the
files downloaded, terms and conditions queries. I realised after reading
a 37 Signals blog post that you should treat customer service queries as
bugs in your onsite communication.

If three customers asks me over a two-month period "how many pages are
in this set of notes", then that indicates that I should include that
information on the webpage where that question first occurred to them,
that is, the right information provided at exactly the right time.
Practicing this discipline has led my business to have approximately one
customer service question per 750 euro of notes sold, a good ratio.

## Do not lose the progress of your thoughts
Periodically, I've needed to do some heavy thinking and experimenting
with some aspect of my passive income source. For example I would
experiment with using different themes in my Facebook advertising photos
- does danger sell better than sex, or does food outsell both? How much
  is the maximum I can bid on Google Adwords for each set of notes while
still remaining satisfactorily profitable? I might spend a full day
doing a review and arriving at a results then implementing some aspect
of it. But, because I'm not working on the income day in day out, I'd
forget the details of the results, and a year later, when I want to run
a new online advertising campaign I can't remember what worked When
every minute counts, that's a dreadful waste, and now that I'm aware of
this I do all my thinking into organised files in a folder I call
"thinking aloud".

## The killer skill

If you could learn one skill in helping you achieve a passive income
what do you think that would be? You probably said programming. Wrong,
while the study of automation is a close second, you can use lots of great tools,
such as Wordpress, and get the benefits of programming without deep
knowledge. 

The killer skill for passive incomes is online marketing.  I didn't make
a penny in my business until I started using Google Adwords. With
another business I used to run, Bolivian Express, a journalism school in
Bolivia, we didn't make a single sale until we emailed 20
university mailing lists. 

SEO, Adwords, Facebook advertising, email marketing and social media
marketing will help you make sales passively.  A business not using
these disciplines is like a physical brick-store, say an IKEA, on an
island in the middle of the ocean, that tells no-one they opened, yet
expect customers to throng to the doors.  

You will get exactly the number of customers you direct to your website.
All these areas are vague and you will get different advice on every
blog post you read, but it does work if you to dive in and experiment.

Besides, even if your passive income stream fails you can live happily
location free and on a high freelance wage through online marketing
freelancing, so think of learning this skill as a wise investment.

## Switch Hats Regularly. Product Hardhat/Marketing Straw Hat
One problem you want to avoid with your passive income source is
ploughing all your time into one narrow part of your business, likely
product, whilst avoiding the others. It's too easy to get sucked up into
the tasks you enjoy most (be that writing, programming) whilst avoiding the
harder, more "work"-like tasks that drain you energy but are necessary
to finish work quickly.

I much prefer programming to any other aspect of my business, and one
hack I used to force myself to rotate my attention more evenly was to
consciously match the number of programming pomodoros (or half hour work
slots if you don't know what a pomodoro is), with marketing pomodoros.
The programming suffered in the sense that I took shortcuts and have a
ghastly list of bugs I'm aware of, but these bugs don't really affect the
delivery of value to customers in 99.5% of cases, so this is an engineering imperfection
I'm willing to tolerate in exchange for added sales.

## Further Reading

I owe most of what I've said above to the books and blogs that
influenced my thinking, so if my approach appeals to you I recommend you
read Rework by 37 Signals and the E-Myth Revisited by Michael E.  Gerber
for general philosophy, then for online marketing and web business, I
recommend every blog post by Patrick McKenzie.

# Performance Preparation
* Print outline
* Rehearse outloud three times
* Record yourself rehearsing it slowly, wathcing for filler words and
  too much speed
* Imagine looking into the eyes of audience members for two full seconds
* Talk to some audience before starting

# Goals
Educate audience on work-practices that will save them time
Inspire them that it can be done
Set expectations for how long it will take
Tell my story


